Add files to generate report for project-updates (#13)
stjude-dnb-binfcore/sc-rna-seq-snap-10x-Flex: analyses/project-updates/01-generate-project-report.Rmd

scDblFinder_results_file <- file.path(scDblFinder_results_dir, "doublets_metrics.tsv")
cells_table_file <- file.path(Filter_object_results_dir, "number_of_cells_per_sample.tsv")
#metadata_file <- file.path(metadata_dir, "project_metadata.tsv") # metadata input file

summary_samples_table_file <- file.path(metadata_dir, metadata_file) # summary_samples_table file
```

# Methods

## Data

### `r PROJECT_NAME`

```{r read-table, echo = FALSE}
summary_samples_table <- readr::read_tsv(summary_samples_table_file, guess_max = 100000, show_col_types = FALSE)
```

```{r, fig.align = "left", results = "asis", message = FALSE, warning = FALSE, echo = FALSE}
# Create the data frame
tables1 <- summary_samples_table
cat("  \n<div align=\"center\" style=\"font-size:80%\">  \n")
print(knitr::kable(tables1, align = "lcccc", caption = "Summary of samples in the cohort"))
cat("  \n</div>  \n")
cat("  \n\\pagebreak  \n")
```

  
# Results

All results can be found here:

- Cluster users can access data from: `r root_dir`/analyses/
- Mac users can access data from: `r mac_results_filepath`/`r cohort_value`/analyses/
- `r results_filepath`/`r cohort_value`/analyses/

> We used FastQC (v0.11.9) and multiqc (v1.25) to perform quality control tool for all libraries across the project from the raw sequencing reads. Next, we aligned these reads using CellRanger (v8.0.1) (10x Flex Genomics). 

Reviewer: Maybe for a bit of extra clarity, you can specify they were aligned using the `multi` cellranger pipeline?

```suggestion
We used FastQC (v0.11.9) and multiqc (v1.25) to perform quality control tool for all libraries across the project from the raw sequencing reads. Next, we aligned these reads using CellRanger multi (v8.0.1) (10x Flex Genomics). 
```

Author: No, I don't think this is necessary. We don't specify the algorithm (in th eother one is cellranger count), but rather the tool and versioning.

## fastqc-analysis

> FastQC metrics such as per-base sequence quality, GC content, and adapter contamination were within expected thresholds, ensuring that the data is suitable for downstream analyses. Further validation steps, such as alignment or feature counting, will help confirm that the data is suitable for further processing and analysis.

Reviewer: Is this another section that should be edited by the user for their specific data? It states that metrics "were within expected thresholds", but that may not always be true. If this is supposed to be edited by the user, maybe ensure that is documented clearly somewhere for this module. And if it is not supposed to be edited by the user, then perhaps this section could be changed to specify that these are some of the metrics we are checking during this step to determine the quality of the sequencing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
FastQC metrics such as per-base sequence quality, GC content, and adapter contamination can indicate the quality of the sequencing data and contribute to determining if the data is suitable for downstream analyses. Further validation steps, such as alignment or feature counting, will also help confirm if the data is suitable for further processing and analysis.
```

For more information, please see: `r results_filepath`/`r cohort_value`/analyses/fastqc-analysis/results

### Results: `r PROJECT_NAME` cohort

```{r read-fastqc-analysis, echo = FALSE}
#multiqc_general_stats_df <- read.table(multiqc_general_stats_results_file, header = TRUE, sep = "\t") %>%
#  arrange(Sample)

#multiqc_fastqc_df <- read.table(multiqc_fastqc_results_file, header = TRUE, sep = "\t") %>% 
#  mutate_if(is.numeric, ~ scales::comma(.)) %>%
#  arrange(Sample)

fastqc_overrepresented_df <- read.table(fastqc_overrepresented_results_file, header = TRUE, sep = "\t") %>%
  rename_with(~ gsub(" ", "_", .)) %>% # Replace spaces with underscores in column names
  mutate(Overrepresented_sequences_by_sample_pct = Top.overrepresented.sequence + Sum.of.remaining.overrepresented.sequences) %>%
  mutate_if(is.numeric, ~ round(. , 2)) %>% # Round all numeric columns to 2 decimal places
  arrange(Sample)
```

#### Sequence Quality Histograms

> - The results are within the expected range.

Reviewer: This may not always be a true statement, so I think it could be more informative if this section briefly explained what patterns for this metric might indicate an issue with the sequencing data and what some common explanations for seeing an issue might be, like you do in the sections below.

I think a couple sentences sharing this type of info could be summarized based off the fastqc documentation [here](https://www.bioinformatics.babraham.ac.uk/projects/fastqc/Help/3%20Analysis%20Modules/3%20Per%20Sequence%20Quality%20Scores.html). E.g. this graph indicates the overall quality scores for the sequences. If a large proportion of sequences have lower scores this can indicated a general quality issue with the sequencing run.
